It can be said without a doubt,
and the Internet and
the worldwide web changed
everything in our lives.
The worldwide web is indeed the largest
information source there is today.
But what's the data model behind the web?
We will say that it is
the semi-structure data model.
So after going through this video you
will be able to distinguish between
the structured data model that we
talked about the last time and
semi-structured data model.
Further, you will recognize that the most
times the semi-structured data
refers to tree structured data.
And you can explain why tree
navigation operations are important for
formats like XML and JSON.
Let's a take a very simple web page.
Now this page does not have
a lot of content or stylization.
It doesn't even have links to other pages,
but
let's look at the corresponding HTML code.
This code is used by the browser so
that it can render the HTML, and
notice a few things in this data.
The entire data comes within the HTML and
slash HTML blocks.
And we similarly have a body begin and
end, a header begin and
end, a list begin and end and
a paragraph begin and end.
Everywhere here a block is
nested within a larger block.
The second item to notice is that
unlike a relational structure
there are multiple list items and
multiple paragraphs.
And any single document would
have a different number of them.
This means while the date object has
some structure it is more flexible.
So this is the hallmark office
semi structure date model.
Now XML, or
the extensible markup language, is another
well known standard to represent data.
You can think of XML as a generalization
of HTML where the elements, that's
the beginning and end markers within
the angular brackets, can be any string.
And not like the ones
allowed by standard HTML.
Let's see an example
from a biological case.
As you can see, there are two
elements called sample attribute.
They do structurally
different because they
have different numbers of sub
elements called the value.
Another interesting issue
about XML data processing
is that you can actually credit for
the structure elements.
For example, it is perfectly fine to ask,
what is the name of the element
which contains a sub-element whose
textual content is cell type?
As you can see, you'll get two results,
sample attribute.
An experimental factor because sample
attribute has a sub-element called
category and experimental factor
has a subelement called link and
each of these subelements
have the value celltape.
Now we cannot perform an operation
like this in a relational data model.
For example, we cannot say which relation
has a column with a value, John.
The same idea can also be seen in JSON or
the Java Script Object Notation, which
is a very popular format used for many
different data like Twitter and Facebook.
Consider the example here,
all of the format looks different.
We have a similar nested
structure varies that is lists
containing other lists which will contain
topples Which consists of p value ps.
So the key value pairs at atomic
property names and their values.
But one way to generalize about all these
different forms of semi structured data
is to model them as trees.
Let's go back to .xml.
The left side shows an XML document, and
the right side shows
the corresponding tree.
Since the top object of
the root element is document,
it is also the root of the tree.
Now under document we have
a report element with author and
date under it, and also a paper element
with title, author, and source under it.
The actual values,
like is the textual content of an element.
Since a text data item cannot
have any further components,
these text values are always
the leaves of the tree.
Now, modeling a document as a tree
has significant advantages.
A tree is a well-known data structure,
that allows what's called
a navigational access to data.
Imagine you are standing
on the note paper.
Now you can perform a getParent
operation and navigate the document.
Or you can perform a getChildren operation
to get to the title, author and source.
You can even perform a getSiblings
operation and get to the report.
You can also ask a textual query like
which strings have the substring data and
seek their root-to-node path to get to
the path from document to the text nodes.
You can possibly see how queries
can be evaluated on the tree,
now let us take the query.
Who is the author of XML query data model.
In one evaluation scheme we can navigate
up from the text note to title,
to paper, and then navigate down
to author and then to Don Robie.
Well how do we know that we have to get up
to paper before reversing the direction?
Well, paper is the least,
that's the lowest in the tree,
common ancestor of the author note,
and the XM query data model note.
We will come back to semi
structure data in a later module.